Introduction Of motherboard:
A motherboard (alternatively known as the mainboard, main circuit board, system board, baseboard, planar board or logic board, 
or colloquially, a mobo) is the main printed circuit board (PCB) found in general purpose computers and other expandable systems. 
It holds, and allows, communication between many of the crucial electronic components of a system, such as the central processing unit (CPU) and memory, 
and provides connectors for other peripherals. Unlike a backplane, a motherboard usually contains significant sub-systems such as the central processor, 
the chipset's input/output and memory controllers, interface connectors, and other components integrated for general purpose use and applications.
A motherboard provides the electrical connections by which the other components of the system communicate. Unlike a backplane, 
it also contains the central processing unit and hosts other subsystems and devices.
Modern motherboards includes:
•	Sockets (or slots) in which one or more microprocessors may be installed. In the case of CPUs in ball grid array packages, such as the VIA C3,
  the CPU is directly soldered to the motherboard. 
•	Memory Slots into which the system's main memory is to be installed, typically in the form of DIMM modules containing DRAM chips
•	A chipset which forms an interface between the CPU's front-side bus, main memory, and peripheral buses
•	Non-volatile memory chips (usually Flash ROM in modern motherboards) containing the system's firmware or BIOS
•	A clock generator which produces the system clock signal to synchronize the various components
•	Slots for expansion cards (the interface to the system via the buses supported by the chipset)
•	Power connectors, which receive electrical power from the computer power supply and distribute it to the CPU, chipset, main memory,
  and expansion cards. As of 2007, some graphics cards (e.g. GeForce 8 and Radeon R600) require more power than the motherboard can
  provide, and thus dedicated connectors have been introduced to attach them directly to the power supply. 
•	Connectors for hard drives, typically SATA only. Disk drives also connect to the power supply.

Additionally, nearly all motherboards include logic and connectors to support commonly used input devices, such as USB for mouse devices 
and keyboards. Early personal computers such as the Apple II or IBM PC included only this minimal peripheral support on the motherboard.
Occasionally video interface hardware was also integrated into the motherboard; for example, on the Apple II and rarely on IBM-compatible 
computers such as the IBM PC Jr. Additional peripherals such as disk controllers and serial ports were provided as expansion cards.
Given the high thermal design power of high-speed computer CPUs and components, modern motherboards nearly always include heat sinks
and mounting points for fans to dissipate excess heat.

Cooling Of Computer
Motherboards are generally air cooled with heat sinks often mounted on larger chips, such as the Northbridge, in modern motherboards.
Insufficient or improper cooling can cause damage to the internal components of the computer, or cause it to crash. Passive cooling,
or a single fan mounted on the power supply, was sufficient for many desktop computer CPU's until the late 1990s; since then, 
most have required CPU fans mounted on their heat sinks, due to rising clock speeds and power consumption. 
Most motherboards have connectors for additional computer fans and integrated temperature sensors to detect motherboard and
CPU temperatures and controllable fan connectors which the BIOS or operating system can use to regulate fan speed.
Alternatively computers can use a water cooling system instead of many fans.


** CPU sockets: **
A CPU socket (central processing unit) or slot is an electrical component that attaches to a Printed Circuit Board (PCB) and is designed
to house a CPU (also called a microprocessor). It is a special type of integrated circuit socket designed for very high pin counts. 
A CPU socket provides many functions, including a physical structure to support the CPU, support for a heat sink, facilitating 
replacement (as well as reducing cost), and most importantly, forming an electrical interface both with the CPU and the PCB.
CPU sockets on the motherboard can most often be found in most desktop and server computers (laptops typically use surface mount CPUs), 
particularly those based on the Intel x86 architecture. A CPU socket type and motherboard chipset must support the CPU series and speed.

